# Taming CSS
# Chapter 5: Document Flow

CSS has two primary responsibilities on a web page: styling and layout.  Styling pertains to the look and feel of the individual elements on the screen.  We have looked at a number of things like font size, backgrounds, and colors which are all about styling.  In this chapter, we will begin to turn our attention to layout.  Layout pertains to the position of elements on the page and in relation to one another.

Think about the last webpage you visited.  Perhaps it had a navigational bar across the top of the screen, with links or even dropdown menus arranged horizontally.  Or maybe it had a menu down the side, with links stacked one atop another.  On some sites, the main navigation remains fixed on the screen as you scroll the page, on others it scrolls normally.  The page likely had a footer at the bottom, below both the main content and any sidebars; on some pages, the sidebar may have been longer than the content, but on others the content may have been longer than the sidebar.  Either way, the footer is below them both.  There are also less obvious elements in the design: modal dialog boxes, expanding search boxes, promotional sections that appear side by side or in a grid.  All of these things are part of the layout.

Layout is one of your first major design concerns when designing a new site.  It can also become very complex, depending on what you wish to do.  Most questions I get about CSS concern troubles with layout.  There are countless ways to position and size elements on the page, and dozens of ways they can interact with each other.  Needless to say, it is essential to understand the parts of CSS that have to do with layout, and your knowledge of them needs to be thorough enough that you can understand and predict how they will interact with one another when mixed and matched in different ways.

Some of the main tools we use to layout pages are positioning, floats, and sizing.  But before we get to those, we need to understand how the page behaves by default.  We can not effectively change things from their default state if we don't understand what the default state is and how it behaves.  This default state is called the **normal document flow**.

